feat(docs): add wildcard access url documentation page (#19713)
coder/coder: docs/admin/networking/wildcard-access-url.md

# Wildcard Access URLs

> Wildcard access URLs unlock Coder's full potential for modern development workflows. While optional for basic SSH usage, this feature becomes essential when teams need web applications, development previews, or browser-based tools. **Wildcard access URL is essential for many development workflows in Coder** - Web IDEs (code-server, VS Code Web, JupyterLab) and some development frameworks work significantly better with subdomain-based access rather than path-based URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wildcard access URLs unlock Coder's full potential for modern development workflows. While optional for basic SSH usage, this feature becomes essential when teams need web applications, development previews, or browser-based tools. **Wildcard access URLs are essential for many development workflows in Coder** - Web IDEs (code-server, VS Code Web, JupyterLab) and some development frameworks work significantly better with subdomain-based access rather than path-based URLs.
```

## Why configure wildcard access URLs?

### Key benefits

> - **Enables port access**: Each application gets a unique subdomain with port support (e.g., `8080--main--myworkspace--john.coder.example.com`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Enables port access**: Each application gets a unique subdomain with port support (e.g. `8080--main--myworkspace--john.coder.example.com`)
```

### Applications that require subdomain access

The following applications have issues or don't work without wildcard access URLs:

- **KasmVNC**: Cannot function with path-based access
- **Vite dev server**: Hot module replacement and asset serving issues with path-based routing
- **React dev server**: Similar issues with hot reloading and absolute path references
- **Next.js development server**: Asset serving and routing conflicts with path-based access
- **JupyterLab**: More complex template configuration and security risks when using path-based routing
- **RStudio**: More complex template configuration and security risks when using path-based routing

## Configuration

`CODER_WILDCARD_ACCESS_URL` is necessary for [port forwarding](port-forwarding.md#dashboard) via the dashboard or running [coder_apps](../templates/index.md) on an absolute path. Set this to a wildcard subdomain that resolves to Coder (e.g. `*.coder.example.com`).

```bash
export CODER_WILDCARD_ACCESS_URL="*.coder.example.com"
coder server
```

### TLS Certificate Setup

Wildcard access URLs require a TLS certificate that covers the wildcard domain. You have several options:

> [!TIP]

> > You can use a single certificate for both the access URL and wildcard access URL. The certificate CN must match the wildcard domain, such as `*.coder.example.com`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can use a single certificate for both the access URL and wildcard access URL. The certificate CN or SANs must match the wildcard domain, such as `*.coder.example.com`.
```

### When wildcard access URL is required

Wildcard access URL enables subdomain-based workspace applications, which is required for:

- **Web IDEs**: code-server, VS Code Web, JupyterLab, RStudio work better with dedicated subdomains
- **Modern development frameworks**: Vite, React dev server, Next.js, and similar tools expect to control the entire domain for features like hot module replacement and asset serving
- **Development servers with preview URLs**: Applications that generate preview URLs or use absolute paths
- **Applications that don't support path-based routing**: Some tools like KasmVNC cannot function with path-based access
- **Secure development environment isolation**: Each development application runs on its own subdomain

## Configuration

`CODER_WILDCARD_ACCESS_URL` is necessary for [port forwarding](port-forwarding.md#dashboard) via the dashboard or running [coder_apps](../templates/index.md) on an absolute path. Set this to a wildcard subdomain that resolves to Coder (e.g. `*.coder.example.com`).

```bash
export CODER_WILDCARD_ACCESS_URL="*.coder.example.com"
coder server

> ```

Reviewer: Needs to mention TLS certificate set up

### DNS Setup

You'll need to configure DNS to point wildcard subdomains to your Coder server:

```text
*.coder.example.com    A    <your-coder-server-ip>

> ```

Reviewer: Or `*.coder.example.com CNAME coder.example.com`

> 

Reviewer: There needs to be a section here about workspace proxies, which all individually need their own wildcard access URL, e.g. `*.sydney.coder.example.com`

## Template Configuration

In your Coder templates, enable subdomain applications using the `subdomain` parameter:

```hcl
resource "coder_app" "code-server" {
  agent_id     = coder_agent.main.id
  slug         = "code-server"
  display_name = "VS Code"
  url          = "http://localhost:8080"
  icon         = "/icon/code.svg"
  subdomain    = true
  share        = "owner"
}
```

## Troubleshooting

### Applications not accessible

If workspace applications are not working:

> 1. Verify the `CODER_WILDCARD_ACCESS_URL` environment variable is configured correctly

Reviewer: Provide more instructions. Admins can check deployment settings in the dashboard

> 2. Check DNS resolution for wildcard subdomains

Reviewer: Provide an example command like `dig test.coder.example.com` and `nslookup test.coder.example.com`

3. Ensure TLS certificates cover the wildcard domain
4. Confirm template `coder_app` resources have `subdomain = true`

## See also

> - [Port Forwarding](port-forwarding.md) - Access workspace applications via dashboard when wildcard URL is not configured

Reviewer: This is false. Ports cannot be accessed via the web when wildcard access URLs are not enabled (unless you use the CLI).
